all right so
I was wrong about the Z flip 5.
kinda
all right so this is the new z-flip 5
from Samsung this is their smaller
folding phone again starting at a
thousand bucks and in nearly the same
dimensions as last year's four and I
remember when it first got announced we
had some well-respected reviewers saying
this changes everything this is the big
upgrade it's the biggest upgrade ever
and my impression was they've settled
here now to be fair my video was
examining both the flip 5 and the fold
five and looking at how much like the
foldables world has evolved in the past
year and how much Samsung seems to be
sticking to their tried and true form
factors so it just feels like they're
refining and settling into their
positions but now after using the flip 5
much more over the past couple days I
gotta say I was wrong about this phone
uh this is actually one of the biggest
updates yet so basically there's three
main new differences with this phone
over the Z flip 4 which are the chip the
hinge and then the new outside display
and I'm gonna go in order of importance
here actually because I think it's a
pretty clear order so first of all well
they got this new overclocked Snapdragon
8 Gen 2 chip in here great it's now up
to date with the latest flagships it's
the same one that's in the s23 and s23
Ultra and yeah it's been a great chip
you know the phone is super responsive
it can handle multitasking since it's
paid with eight gigs of RAM it's Snappy
apps open quickly there's no issues here
it can also handle heavy gaming and I
don't even gain much on my phone but it
can do it it's great the other half of a
great ship though is efficiency so when
I saw Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy I
was hoping to see maybe an improvement
in overall battery life
but I didn't and I mean I guess I
shouldn't be surprised considering the
physical battery size is still the same
it's still 3 700 milliamp hours but it's
got way more pixels now to power which
we'll talk about that in a second so the
new chip fine but y'all have heard me
talk about the hinge though the hinge
being the most important physical part
of a folding phone you can't Ace a
folding phone without acing the hinge
and this hinge is nice so Samsung for
the first time has actually taken Parts
out of and simplified the hinge of this
phone which has resulted in less moving
Parts which is typically a win for
long-term durability but also means a
little less volume and a little less
thickness around the back of the phone
shout out to dave2d for this graphic
basically illustrating the new internal
multi-axis folding mechanism that allows
the OLED inside to have this slightly
gentler wider radius when it's folded up
which should put less stress through the
middle honestly I don't notice a huge
difference with the crease it's still
clearly there like it's one of those
things where you turn the screen off or
look off axis and it's very obvious but
once you get into the flow of using the
phone it's very easy to forget about
honestly the most important difference
here with the hinge is actually just
that it folds completely flat now so
every z-flip up to this point has folded
shut with just like a little small Gap
that could get you know a little bit of
dust a little bit of sand a little bit
of dirt inside which is not great when
the inside screen is the most delicate
part of the phone so now all these
folding phones across the board from
everybody they're all working towards
this gapless close it's still
technically not fully dust resistant I
mean it has an ipx8 rating again the 8
means it can be splashed but the X means
no official dust resistance yet but it's
also an even more satisfying clap now
and yeah it's also just it's slightly
more firm it's a nice sturdy hinge every
year which is hard to appreciate until
you go back to the earliest folding
phones and see how loose those were I
still personally hardly ever use those
like half folded features where you can
like prop it up and use the camera like
this or like watch videos or whatever
but look a good hinge is a good hinge
but the biggest change to this phone is
clearly the bigger screen on the outside
so let's talk about it so the z-flip has
gone from this tiny little 1.9 inch slot
to a full squared 3.4 inch 720p cover
screen called the flex window this is
huge it's a massive Improvement that's
way more screen for checking the time or
reading notifications way more screen
for framing up pictures with the primary
cameras on the outside it's a huge win
for all that stuff and then also sends
us this huge new screen they've sort of
organized this UI of up to 11 pages of
apps that you can flip through uh sort
of encouraging you to use the outside
screen more you're using a phone without
even opening it so you can fully unlock
and then just start swiping over to
either quickly View and organize your
notifications or move between all these
full screen widgets I have a calendar
widget of course which is scrollable
you've got a scrollable weather widget
basically these are all not even really
widgets they're more like mini apps that
have been specifically Built For This
outside screen to be fully functional
and optimized and then it if you're
feeling bold you can also jump into the
lab settings and start enabling other
non-optimized apps to also work on the
outside screen so there's no question
you can do way more with this outside
screen than you ever could before on the
flip the question that's up to you now
really is just will you actually use it
like how will you use it and it's a
surprisingly hard question to answer
like when I first saw the phone get
released you know at first you see that
gets a bigger outside screen but I
honestly thought I wouldn't use it much
like I thought I would just continue to
use the phone mostly open and I would
enjoy the barrier between me and endless
Doom scrolling and maybe I'd check the
time or some notifications a little bit
more on the outside
but I was wrong basically the thing that
I found I do much more often especially
like early in the day is notification
management just triaging going through
at the beginning through a bunch of
notifications and clearing through the
ones I don't need reading the ones that
I do need to see that's way better than
opening the phone and like accidentally
starting to Doom scroll through Tick
Tock or something so in the lab settings
there's basically only a few apps that
you can actually officially enable on
the outside screen it's basically Maps
messaging apps and then Netflix and
YouTube for some reason for you psychos
out there I definitely tried to answer
some texts with the full qwerty keyboard
that shows up on the outside screen now
and yeah it technically works but it's
like all right do we really want to be
doing this like my hands are too big to
be typing on this small of a keyboard
regularly maybe a few quick responses to
stuff here and there maybe voice to text
a little more often but nothing too
crazy there's actually also even a whole
app in the Samsung Galaxy store called
good luck with an extension called
multi-star and basically if you have
both of these it lets you add a launcher
to the outside screen with literally any
app on your phone and so you can go
through and experiment and find all
kinds of weird stuff that kind of works
here like you can technically just
scroll through Twitter through X if you
want to you can flip through your
favorite Reddit app before it disappears
or you can move around Spotify playlists
and these are all kind of not bad
there are also plenty of apps that are
an absolute nightmare that look
ridiculous in a square so I wouldn't
recommend that but I still feel like the
whole point of having a flipping phone
Remains the Same like I this barrier
between open and and shut like it's nice
to have the outside functionality but
this action really signifies okay now
I'm about to get in and like actually do
something on my phone it just really
becomes up to you where that line is of
like when do you open it versus when you
do something on the outside and I think
that my theory is it's just time it's
just how long does that action take so
if it's just checking your notifications
or just reading the time or something
quick like that or pausing your music
that takes two seconds green light like
that could be on the outside screen but
watching a two-hour Netflix documentary
or something that takes like writing an
email you don't want to do that on the
outside screen that's that's a red light
and then there's a whole bunch of stuff
kind of somewhere in the middle like
flipping through a new playlist in
Spotify maybe or
checking your calendar or just like
little brief stuff
that's up to you so yeah if I could give
Samsung any feedback on this thing that
they've made here I mean I think they
will continue to settle into this
General shape I think they're pretty
locked in with it but two things one the
outside screen is 720p and if you look
closely enough you can see some pixels
so maybe a little resolution bump would
be nice but I think more importantly
actually is ltpo this is a 60 hertz
outside screen so it's 60 hertz all the
time and I think if you had an ltpo
screen first of all it would match the
120 hertz Max refresh of the inside
which it's not the end of the world that
they're different but also that could
save battery life being able to go down
to one Hertz when you're only just like
play pausing music or reading a quick
notification or something that could
help with the relatively small batteries
on these phones oh and uh
maybe add decks
that would be kind of nice too so all
right at the end of the day should you
buy the z-flip 5. honestly the truth is
that I think this is the best folding
phone on the planet for the most people
right now it's a great high-end chip the
cameras are still solid the battery life
is at least decent like the fingerprint
reader is super fast it hits a lot of
fundamental stuff it's not missing any
massive features you got wireless
charging ipx8 and they raise the base
storage from 128 to a respectable 256
gigs for the thousand dollar starting
price which is about as good as it gets
with foldables and yeah the colors
aren't that interesting but I do love a
extremely easy to install dbrand skin on
the back since it's literally just a
square of glass so I'd drop the icon
skin on there easiest install of my life
but yeah until they do make some big
jump in the form factor or some change
to this thing as long as they're
settling into this this is the safest
easiest to recommend foldable on the
planet
easy and it even has a five year window
of security updates like this feels like
this feels like the iPhone of Android
foldables
I made a video about the iPhone of
Android I'll link that below if you want
to check that out too but either way
that's been it thanks for watching
catch you in the next one peace